# MIT 6.031: Software Construction

## Descriptions

- Offered by: MIT
- Prerequisites: better if you are already proficient in a programming language
- Programming Languages: Java
- Difficulty: 🌟🌟🌟🌟
- Class Hour: 100 hours

The goal of this course is for you to learn how to write high quality code, and what is meant by high quality is to meet the following three targets:

> Safe from bugs. Correctness (correct behavior right now) and defensiveness (correct behavior in the future) are required in any software we build.
>
> Easy to understand. The code has to communicate to future programmers who need to understand it and make changes in it (fixing bugs or adding new features). That future programmer might be you, months or years from now. You’ll be surprised how much you forget if you don’t write it down, and how much it helps your own future self to have a good design.
>
> Ready for change. Software always changes. Some designs make it easy to make changes; others require throwing away and rewriting a lot of code.


To accomplish this, the designers of this course have written a book that explains many of the core principles of software construction and the valuable lessons learned therefrom. The book covers such details as how to write annotations and function specifications, how to design abstract data structures, and many parallel programming aspects, all of which you will be able to explore and practice in carefully designed Java programming projects.

The Spring 2016 semester course open-sources the code framework for all of its programming assignments, and the latest course materials can be found on its latest course website, see below for links.

## Course Resources

- Course Website: [2021spring](http://web.mit.edu/6.031/www/sp21/), [2016spring](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-005-software-construction-spring-2016/)
- Recordings: None
- Recordings: refer to the course website
- Assignments：4 Problem Sets+ 1 Projects

## Personal Resources

All the resources and assignments used by @PKUFlyingPig in this course are maintained in [PKUFlyingPig/MIT6.031 --- GitHub](https://github.com/PKUFlyingPig/MIT6.031-software-construction)

@pengzhangzhi completed the assignment and recorded notes for this course, and the code is open source at [pengzhangzhi/self-taught-CS/Software Construction - Github](https://github.com/pengzhangzhi/self-taught-CS/tree/main/Software%20Construction)。